Go ahead.
This Wagner, he made the first sea atlas, Proprio Dicto.
So he... other atlases before him had perhaps one or two charts.
But this atlas contains about 50 sea charts.
This is the first atlas.
And it was printed in London in 1588.
And I have...
no less than the dedication copy to the Chancellor, Sir Christopher Hatton, because this atlas was dedicated by Wagner to Sir Christopher Hatton, and I have Sir Christopher Hatton's copy.
Yeah, it's very important about the year 1588.
That's the Spanish Armada year.
Yeah, of course, of course.
It all works together, so to say.
Well, my copy, unfortunately, lacks four charts, but nevertheless, it is magnificently colored, and it is in the original binding done for Christopher Hatton with his initials on the binding.
So, I mean, what can you expect?
One title is lacking in four charts, but nevertheless, it's the finest copy of this pioneering work.
Okay, okay.
Should I come with you?
No, I bring you.
We have a client here holding the Christopher Hatton atlas with his device there?
Yes, with his initials.
H-C-O-C-H.
Yeah, yeah.
Look here.
And here you have the dedication.
To the right, honorable Sir Christopher Hatton, H-A-T-T-O-N.
He was the Lord Chancellor.
Knight, Lord Chancellor, everyone.
Look at the... You see, that was built to take to see, too, I think.
It's very compact.
Yeah.
Look at it.
And there are 45 charts of that quality in it.
It was the first time that all the coasts of Europe and also of Africa have been charted together.
You know, there were single Portulans and so on, but never before
And you see this is preserved in the original binding of 1588.
And you can see that this was constructed to carry to sea.
Yes, yes, yes.
It's compact.
Yeah, it's compact.
And here you see that we have an assembly removed board charts out of this?
Yes, yes.
It's criminal.
It's a pity, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they really tore them off, you know.
Look here, look here.
I mean, this is really vandalism, one model.
It's a pity but perhaps I can.
So this is also one of the reasons for me never to offer this because I always hope to be able to improve it or to complete it from another copy.
And perhaps it will be possible because I did this before without it.
You see here, this is the second title.
The title is lacking and this is the second title.
So you've collated this against other companies?
Yes, yes, I've collated this, and I had a, I had a, here, field title and carton 1, 14, 15, and 20.
But nevertheless, I mean, it's the finest copy that you can ever, ever find.
So if you are able to improve it, you would certainly...
You'd make note that this has been approved with... Of course, of course.
I mean, this has to be mentioned.
One could even just lay the chaff that one can acquire... In the appropriate spots.
Either this or at the end, or one could add them in a separate box or so.
That's interesting.
So that it is just...
The perfect, but of course not.
But it is, of course, sophisticated in this way.
But you can also sell this the way it is, because this... Look at that.
Though it is imperfect, it is perfect, so to say.
And the preservation is very fine.
this is to be mended maybe if people come in to do that kind of work are you saying yes either well with small things my restores book binders come here and do this here and with the more important more with the more extended things I send them to to my restores to Oxford or to Paris
That's wonderful.
Yeah.
I've never seen... No, it's very, very rare, you know.
Even the other editions, the Dutch edition, and there's also one French edition, they are so rare that in the last 20 or 30 years only one other copy
or seven years ago but this is the original English edition and it is also much larger because the others they are oblong folio you know not not folio so so that the charts are only this this big see what I can see about this instantly is that this was made for a semen this was made for
This was made for an officer who went to sea.
Well, I don't think so, because it has been made for Christopher Hatton, you know.
This is Christopher Hatton's copy.
But, of course, ideally, he was supposed to take it to the sea.
And so they constructed it for him to ideally take it to the sea.
But I don't know whether he had ever... He never did, probably.
Probably, because he was low chance.
It just looks so compact, and it looks constructed in a manner that... for portability, I guess.
I think that they constructed this to be able to take it with you on a ship, of course.
But this is too...
Finely preserved, I think.
I think you're right.
That one could presume that it has never been brought to... Can you surmise how the vandalized pages... What kind of lapse happened that somebody actually had access to tear out pages, I wonder?
Well, one can imagine that
of what they liked.
That could be it.
Yeah, perhaps because otherwise it is unexplainable.
Otherwise there's always a thief there who's taken the whole book.
Yes, he would have taken the whole book.
Yes, I think.
Or they just wanted, they were totally illiterate people and they just wanted some
So they tore it off, but it's a great pity, one has to say.
Can I ask you, last night you were saying that how some books go for six figures, seven figures.
Yes.
Are any of the books that you showed me in that range, would you say?
Yes, yes, of course, I mean, most of them.
Most of them, okay.
The Grazian, it cost one million Deutsche Mark on vellum, and
And you have to imagine, I mean, I bought this eight years ago, seven, eight years ago, and it then already cost me $300,000, which then was much more than $600,000.
So after seven or eight years, you are nearly forced to
to ask that some to get a certain profit out of it because don't forget the interest.
What amazes me is that you aren't in any rush at all to move these things along.
No.
And really, I think I'm the only one.
I was going to say, it would almost behoove you to have flow.
Yes, of course, in a business sense.
But my business is very good.
I do it very calmly, very...
very subdued and I collect and then I publish a catalogue once or twice a year and then I sell as much as I ever want to sell you know and sometimes I even don't sell if I do not like the ones who the way it's shaping up so
then I have enough money or even more money than I need.
And then I can make plans for new catalogs.
And these catalogs really, I mean, they are my life.
And if they are enough for others, this is just fine.
I bet there are people who collect your catalogs.
Yes, of course.
I mean, my catalogs are collected.
I would have to think they are.
And this is the 40th that you're working on?
Yes, the 40th and the 41st.
So that's maybe two a year.
Yes, exactly.
Two a year.
We published two a year.
In the first years, they were small catalogs, but soon they developed into a larger size and into a more important illustration, and then also in a...
sort of description that you can call sufficient or even scholarly.
And so the kind of catalog that we do evolved.
I show you my catalog of botanical and zoological books.
With this we had, well,
And I do want to look at the book you brought to dinner last night that we never had a chance to look at.
Oh, yes, yes, I bring it.
By town.
Catalogs like these.
Botanic.
Botany and zoology.
Where do you have these then printed?
This is printed in Germany.
You see here is one of eight colored, one of eight known copies of Basler, the most magnificent.
botanical book ever published.
It had 367 plates like that, and this is one of eight known copies with the original coloring.
Nicholas Barker wrote on this copy.
He did?
Yeah.
Only here do you know that it's a catalog.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
This was the richest manuscript herbal in the world.
It had 629 representation of herbs and and and and and flowers and so on.
Now this is 34 and 35.
Yes because it contains botany and zoology.
We should have published this separately but I thought this way with a 400 and the 420
pages or so, no, 440 pages.
I've never seen anything.
No, no.
This does not exist.
And we had, you see, Duhamel de Monceau, the copy of King Louis-Philippe of France, and all these things.
I mean, not only were there the books you always liked to have, but the finest copies, you know.
And this gives you a way of, I guess, of kind of keeping a
This is my way of keeping the record.
The recording has passed through your hands.
And your custodianship, so to speak.
Yes.
This is very rewarding for me.
You have a long shot, a detail.
Yeah.
But your photographer is excellent.
He is very good, yeah.
The lilies of the only known totally uncut, untrend copy.
to survive.
Has this moved along to the other pans?
Yes, yes.
All these things have been sold.
And most of the finest things too.
Long leaf of two melon leaves from this block book of the apocalypse, you know.
And this is 1440 or so.
So it's before Gutenberg or
at the very latest the same time as Gutenberg because the illustration and the text has been cut into wood you know so this is say the medium between manuscript and printing with movable types the block books are very very critical yeah they are and I had the last complete block book oh I give you that catalog
This house is deceptive.
It just keeps going and going and going.
Yeah, always, always.
And this must be Dutch, of course, this painting here.
No, it's Chardin.
La mer la beuse.
you said this house was 1716 no this this house is from 1918 you know I saw the old house in which you live in oh I see from 1716 I show you the date on the on those wooden
panels.
Come with me.
Look at the beam.
Look here, 1716.
And this is LV, LV, Ludwig, I don't know, Derzeitverwalter.
So he was the guardian of the mill.
Because, of course, the mill itself belonged to noblemen, you know, the Herren von Klingenberg here.
And he had only the right to use this mill.
And what was the mill?
What did they mill?
Well, everything.
I mean, barley, for instance, corn or whatever.
And that's the name of the property, which translates Beaver Mill, I guess it is?
Beaver Mühle.
Well, that small river that you crossed in coming here from Steinheim Rhine, this is called Beaver.
So the mill at the river Beaver, of course, was called Beaver Mühle.
And the Beaver is still running into the river Rhine.
These are all reference books, but this is the new catalogue of German literature, you know, with the finest copies of German first editions that one can ever imagine.
This is one of the rarest books in German literature, Nathan der Weise, by Lessing.
First impression of the first edition, and it's round like that.
I mean, you never find a copy like that.
Lessing was a librarian.
Yes, in Wolfenbüttel, by the way.
This is Wolfenbüttel about what you asked me yesterday.
He was in Wolfenbüttel.
This is the finest copy known of Heinrich von Ofteding and von Novalis.
He's also a very important German romantic writer.
This is on large paper.
It's totally uncut and preserved as it appeared in 1802.
This is Schiller's
You know, the rarest book in German literature, the first book of... And this is the first edition of the first, the first printing of the first edition.
And look at the condition.
And the condition is just marvelous.
You still get excited by a book.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, you have to.
This is really inevitable.
Look, this is for someone who lives in Switzerland.
Especially, this is Wilhelm Tell.
You know, his first edition.
And with eight original drawings by Ramberg, who is a very renowned German painter.
But these are original watercolors.
Oh ja, ich danke Ihnen.
Vielen Dank.
and this is one of two copies known and the only totally complete copy of this block book of the art of dying the art of dying and it is colored and it and and the text has been cut in wood and so it is totally complete so i thought i
must have a facsimile made, and I wrote a commentary on it, which is my catalogue, so to say, my catalogue 33, you see.
And Nigel Palmer from Oxford wrote a night's foreword, and of course you get this, you can take this with you, you don't have to look at it now, but you just take this.
You're giving that to me?
Yeah, of course.
Would you write something, Ellis?
Yeah, of course, I write something.
And he wrote, and I like this very much, the unusual distinction of producing both the largest and the smallest catalog we have seen this year.
The smallest measures 1.47 to 1.12 millimeters over the slip case that contains two volumes, catalog 33, an admirably thorough description and analysis of the Furstenberg copy complete
and unusually fine as the colouring and condition of the German Asmol-Yendi block book and so on and so on.
So I give you this too, so you... Wow, okay, great.
And I write something.
Would you?
That would be nice.
Of course.
You are kind.
No, I'm not.
I'm normal.
I'm normal, but today...
The normal is the utmost exception, it seems to me, because otherwise you can't explain most of the phenomena in the world.
What I didn't explain at breakfast this morning, we were talking about the making of the catalogue, the beauty of the catalogue, but yet what is, what really...
impressed me.
It was your energy when you were with those books.
Maybe I'm not describing it.
This is essential for me.
You know, one thing I didn't ask you, were you bookish as a youngster?
Always.
So, I mean, this may not be the most correct English of all, but I think you may read it.
I will treasure it.
No, really, it's a small jewel.
The very day I published this catalog, I sold it to the Gutenberg Museum in Mainz.
Where I was two days ago, by the way.
I went to visit it.
Aha, aha.
And I sold this to the Gutenberg Museum.
Which is quite a beautiful place.
I'm going to write about it.
It's very, very fine.
And it's also very important.
Look at this.
It fits into my pocket.
Yeah.
It was destined to be taken with you.
Also, the blog book was destined to be taken, to be read every day.
To prepare for...
But let's talk a little bit about your youth.
I asked you if you were bookish as a youngster.
Yes, I was always reading.
I started reading as soon as I was able to read, six and seven years.
And you know, in the 50s when I started reading, it was... Don't mind me.
It was...
It was totally different from today.
Our children, they grow in the presence of... I can get there if you want.
In the presence of TV and the presence of commercials and so on.
But we, after the Second World War, you know, only 10 years away from the Second World War, when I started reading and so on, books were the essential food.
And food of the mind, of course, intellectual food.
And I read and read and could not get enough.
And so it came that
during my days and during my years of school I read through the whole world literature you know starting from the Gilgamesh epos in 2000 years before Jesus Christ with the pre-socratian philosophical writers and with Homer
with Pindar, with all the Greek... Were you reading them in their languages?
Were you acquiring languages at that point?
Yes, I learned in school I had English, French, Latin and Greek, Old Greek.
So I was prepared to read these four languages and of course the very, very difficult Greek poets or Pindar or Menander
those I read together with a German, either with a German translation or with a commentary.
Were you preparing to be a scholar in your mind?
Yes, yes.
I always thought that I had to prepare for a university career.
This is a nice angle, by the way, with the painting over there.
Have you seen this painting?
This is interesting because it's a sort of
pre-reflection of Watteau's embankment for Lille de Citerre.
So, I read these languages.
Was your family bookish?
No, not at all.
You know, my grandfather, he came from Bohemia, and my father came from Silesia.
They both were refugees after the Second World War.
After the Second World War?
Yes.
And they were expelled by the Czechs and by the Polish people.
And Russian, of course.
And what was your father's profession?
My father was a dentist.
And my grandfather, he was a farmer.
Though a very wealthy farmer in Bohemia, but he had to start anew after the Second World War with nothing on his hands but his energy, you know.
Well, it seems to run in the family.
Yeah, and this is... So your energy is the word that I was writing all morning.
Energy, energy is... Yeah, and my grandfather had a lot of energy.
And my mother and my father met after the Second World War in Bavaria.
And there I was born, and there was nothing whatsoever concerned with books in my family.
Of course, there were some books, but nothing what we would...
call book culture or library let alone so I had to make this myself the whole way and I did it with a certain enthusiasm with a perhaps sort of fever and I always liked to read and I always liked to get the knowledge get more knowledge and
but also the sheer act of reading, you know, is very, very crucial to me.
Not only to read because I know more afterwards, but also the very act of reading is very crucial to me.
And so, when ending my high school, my what we call gymnasium, the high school, I was
practically through with world literature and then I started I started with my studies in the University of Freiburg in Breisgar Romance languages, German languages and old languages.
And did you finish all these programs?
I finished them but then I did not make a dissertation because I was preparing a dissertation on the old Provençal poets Arnaud Daniel, Marc Cabrou
incidentally it was on their way of hermetic writing it was a certain way of subdued poetry that lives in suggestions and not in outspoken terms
So this is called Trobar Clues, closed poetry.
So I prepared this dissertation, I had lots of materials, I had already hundreds of pages written, but then in 1977, exactly 20 years from now, I made up my mind and I
recognized that the university was not my field.
You know, that circling around one theme for 10 or 20 years... I think you like the excitement of things.
Yes, and this was not... Which is why I chose journalism.
I studied English literature.
My degrees are in literature.
So we are in a certain way... I do not want to compare myself with you, but our careers are
are comparable because we all wanted the challenge.
And we needed the challenge, you know.
And there was no challenge whatsoever at the university.
Because it's too protective and statical.
Yes, statical and always only circling around one or two teams in ten years.
And you snake on your turf and that's your little patch.
And I make a catalog now.
on 50 books, and every book is fascinating, every book is a new discovery.
And so I make discoveries that universities take 10 years or so in a week or so.
And so I never regretted one second in the last 20 years that I quit university.
Here's a question that you can take anywhere you want, but
We've talked about books of obvious value, but what to you is most precious about a book?
And I mean the word in its purest sense.
Well, I think we have to differentiate about this.
Of course, if I have the first edition of the Faust fragment of Goethe in my hand, it is the literary context and the metaphysical context.
background behind that book.
I mean, this book was one of the two or three shaping cultural powers of the last 200 years.
The past of Goethe, of course.
And I have there, I have the finest copy of the past fragment of 1790 in Morocco binding with doublures.
So I mean,
here it is without a doubt the literary and more general the cultural impact of that small object but there are other things of course in a manuscript in a medieval manuscript it is most of all the artistic side because in a manuscript
if it is not, say, the Ilias or the Odyssey of Homer, which does not exist in a medieval manuscript except for one in the Bibliotheca Amoriziana.
I didn't know that.
I mean, there are only two codices of Homer of the Middle Ages.
They have to make it through.
How did those epics make it through the oral form?
Hidden away, tucked away in a cloister.
You think it's something like that?
Waste to be discovered?
It's only hazard that they survived.
It's only hazard.
And because the...
pre-Renaissance writers and the Renaissance writers, Pico della Mirandola, Marsilio Ficino, Lorenzo Valla, and all those, Coluccio Salutati, Boccaccio, Petrarch, proto-humanists, yes, because they searched for original manuscripts in Greek and in Latin in monasteries.
And they found them...
sometimes immediately before they were going to be destroyed.
Because they went to a paper or to a vellum manufacturer who had them scraped off and so on.
So we may say that perhaps we lost about 80% of the whole literary tradition of the antiquity, but we have about 80% of the more important texts at least
in fragments or at least virtually complete.
So if we keep away from the literary importance, which today is nearly impossible to find in manuscripts, though I have very important literary manuscripts,
For instance, I have the oldest known manuscript of the Fiore di Virtù, which is a treatise based on Dante's writings, and which was one of the most widely read treatises of the late Middle Ages.
And I have the first illustrated manuscript of this Fiore di Virtù.
It's 1335, written in Modena with 37 miniatures.
And so on.
But these are exceptions.
So normally in manuscripts what counts is the artistic value in the first place, and then the state of preservation and the provenance.
And the completeness in the fourth.
Because if the manuscript is really fine, it doesn't matter that two or three leaves are lacking.
Because this always happens.
I showed you the athletes.
But...
So we really have to divide between these two views.
But they, of course, I mean, they belong to each other.
But you can't say the most precious in a book for me is that and that.
I have to say in a manuscript it is different from a printed book.
In a printed book you even have to develop that site.
But if we come to a view...
that we are able to say there are four or five most precious entities in books, I think this is enough.
And we have to discriminate, don't you think so?
And if you are living in a thousand years or two thousand years, as I do,
Really, I mean, I do that.
You know, if you are living in the literary and cultural world of a thousand or two thousand years, so you are looking over a span of at least a thousand years, I have manuscripts from the 11th century here, I have
artists' books from the 70s of the 20th century.
So this is a thousand years that we look over in having a look into my treasure vault.
So then you have to be discriminating on what attracts you or what is the most precious for you in a certain book, because book is not like book.
An incunable... Oh, I show you the Philip Biblon.
I would love to see that.
No, this is for us too.
I mean, this is a good... I think it's what we call...
my tape, that's why I was taking notes furiously.
I didn't want to break up the flow, but now I've got it going again.
Do you think you could try and repeat the sentiments of what the philobiblon means to you?
Well, to me, it's a sort of not only milestone, but it's a cornerstone to all we
think, or we have read, or we feel about books.
Because nearly everything that we can feel about collecting, that we can feel about our attitude towards the books, is at least seminary, written by this bishop, Richard de Bury,
in the 13th and 14th century of our time.
I mean, one has to think of that.
And this is the first time that it got into the form in which we all recognize books in printed form.
Of course there are manuscripts of the Philobiblon, but this is the first time that it got available to more than one or two or three books.
So this is also metaphysically not... You cannot appreciate it, because to us it is like the Gutenberg Bible to just book-loving men, or just trained and learned and culturally trained men.
But for book people, the Philobiblon is...
the first and the last book.
And repeat, not repeat, but say again, I was kicking myself, but I never had that on tape, but you're going through the provenance, and you said, Waddell Amherst Heights, and now, which is probably the last one, because... At least in my lifetime, this will be the last one, because I know exactly that this was
the one and only copy for me to get in my lifetime because the other copy was the Wilmerding copy sold in 1951 in New York in the second sale of Lucius Wilmerding's books and it sold for the hugest sum in that whole
very famous auction sale for $13,400, and it's now in Texas in the university.
And you said if you were to sell this for a million dollars?
Even if I could sell this for a million dollars or two million dollars, I wouldn't sell it, because there are things that mean much more than money to us, should at least mean much more than money to us.
And I have other books that are worth that.
Of course the inscriptions, the annotations in the back.
They belong to that book because Michael Waddell, he was really one of the greatest book collectors of all times.
And he noticed when he bought it, from whom he bought it, how much he paid.
6 pounds, 16 shillings, 6 pence from Payne, the most famous bookseller of his time in London, and he bought it on November the 9th of 1802, and then he added some bibliographical notes, and at the end he noticed that he finished it on December the 5th of 1802.
And can we just read the colophon for me once more?
Yes, and the colophon reads explicit, so here,
finishes, here is the end of, Philo Biblon, Sancti, Liber de Amore, Librorum, Colonia, Impressus, Anno Domini, Mille, Quattro Centorum, well, 1472.
I realize I'm sharing in this.
I'm getting a fragment of this book right now.
You realize that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, perhaps I send you a copy, a photocopy of that thing.
You know what I'm planning to do?
I wanted to do this for my 50th birthday, but I hadn't got the time.
I wanted to make a facsimile of this original edition and to place against the facsimile my own translation of this book, to make a new translation.
I think we need one.
And then we have a nice book of 150 pages or so.
And we have also a facsimile of the most important book for book lovers in the world.
Well, I think I should do that.
But it takes a lot of time because the Latin of Richard of Burry is very... It's serviceable.
Yes, but it's that ecclesiastical Latin, you know, that attracted other...
sense other meanings than the classical Latin that we know.
But I know it very well, so it will take me perhaps two months or so to translate it.
But the beauty of that is you've got forever to do that.
Yes.
Because that book's not going anywhere.
No, I think I should do that.
I wanted to send it then to my friends and to my clients as a gift to my 50th birthday, but perhaps I do it for my 55th birthday.
I'm going to shoot a couple of shots, if you don't mind.
Because if I don't mean it, I won't say it.
You are always welcome back here together with your wife.
And so what you cannot take or what you... Just a few shots to help me in the writing, you know, just little carnish shots like this.
I usually carry much larger equipment, but on this trip I just carry this little camera.
I'm going to buy contacts, I think, maybe even at the airport today.
One shot from here.
I'd love to get you sitting in that chair.
This is the
This little camera is not bad, believe it or not.
No, no, I think so.
I know my children have that too.
This is my daughter's.
My big Nikon, I have Nikon equipment in it, but it was too heavy for this trip.
It's not so much better than this one.
And really, unless you're doing fancy things with lots of lenses, but this gives you a nice
composed shot, and the optics are terrific.
You saw in my book, I shot most of the pictures in there.
Really?
I just wanted to say that the photographs were very good.
I chose them all, selected them all.
The old ones, of course, we bought, but the ones of contemporary people, I shot all of those.
I love photography.
Oh, well, this is great.
I guess I want to get those books there.
There are some interesting books here, you know.
This is the G.R.
Merriman School, the finest book on cruise ever.
And this is one of two copies known on large paper.
The four volumes down there.
rulers of very important botanical books, as well as older ones, 16th, 17th century.
You know what I'm saying?
The recycling time is too long.
Do you know the Contax camera?
It's a German camera?
Yes, yes, I do.
It's supposed to be... Yeah, if I have time today, that's another thing, if I have time in Zurich today.
Are camera prices expensive in Switzerland, or are they better in Germany?
Oh, I think in Germany, yeah.
Because in Switzerland they are about 30% more expensive than in Germany.
Because, you know, it's the same, but...
have been imported, not in the European Union, but in Switzerland, so... Oh, this is, yeah, just... Maybe just over here, so I can get these, and so I can get that, and I get the Schandrach.
This is a great picture.
It's a great picture.
It's important because it's reformed the Tsar's reform.
This is wonderful.
I'll show you the stamp.
I just want to get a wide one here.
Come on there.
Well, let's just give it a second.
My daughter's very good, and I said, I'm taking your camera.
Bow for a bad day.
Look here, I'll show you the example of the Daws library.
We will take the Chelsky a cello.
See, this was the private library of... Would you point at it again?
This was the private library of Good Science, and there were the finest books.
And look, there are a thousand, a thousand engravings, and then illuminated, not only colored, but illuminated, heightened with gold and so on.
And this is bound by the finest French binding craftsman of the period, Jerome Leger.
Here you have the initials of the Tsar, you know, Alexander I and Maria Pavlovna.
This is also interesting, the works of Rabelais, you know, by Doré, and it's the only copy printed on vellum.
They only printed one copy on valence, on the finest valence.
You really have to weigh it to believe it.
Come here, just take one hand.
It's two valence.
Look at that, on valence.
This is the finest parchment that you can imagine.
May I?
And look here.
They were so proud that they... Exemplaires unique.
Exemplaires unique.
Let's take a shot of that.
Now, just a minute.
It's better to take it here.
Exemplaires unique.
Here it is.
How would you put this point together?
Or we can take it together with it.
This is also one of the 50, you know.
Look how it is brown.
And it is preserved like new.
And it lay...
And then they parted with it to a very fervent collector.
And from him, the nephew of the original editor, no, the grandnephew, the grandson of the original publisher bought it back.
And I bought it from his house.
And it's Oeuf de Rabelais.
Oeuf de Rabelais.
Yeah, yeah.
Tome Tiramille, Tome I, and Book I, Book II.
And normally, both tome, both volumes are bound into one, and with the China paper copies, it's not thicker like that.
And here you have the only copy printed on valor.
The only copy.
Yeah, yeah.
Just get a picture of you with the wine in the background.
Yes, okay.
I've got one sitting, but that may not come out.
There might be too much light for it.
I have to get a picture in here.
Well, this for me is the place.
This is where we do the work, right?
Yeah, of course.
I work in here and in my stubby.
That's a nice light.
And here you have the rinds too.
This is a great picture.
This is a fine picture.
You'll be in shadow, but that's okay.
This is just really, this is going to be the nicest picture.
Let me just come back a little further, make it long.
Oh, you stay there.
Can I stay here?
Yeah, yeah, I like it, I like it.
I think one could see the rinds.
And the books will just be kind of like, and you will be in silhouette, but that will be... The frame.
The books will be the frame.
Okay, it's rewinding.
That's great.
That's a great picture.
Yeah.
I might even just... You see, I'm not only trying to get every book on books available, but I try to get the best book, the best copy, you know.
I have one of the few copies of the Pierpont Morgan Library catalogue, of which only a hundred exist, that's found in full Moroccan.
Look at that.
And I always try to get the best copy of those books because they belong to me, you know, and they stay with me.
I'm selling the other books.
Slowly, but I'm selling them.
But these books always belong to me, so I try to get the best copy.
For instance, this one, you know.
This is the copy of the author.
And it is... Franz Bohata.
Bohata, and you see... Who I quote in my opening in Gentle Madness, you know.
Yes, and he had it interleaved.
This is his main work on the Missalia, Catalogus Missalium.
And he had it interleaved, and he had it heavily annotated.
So this is interesting.
That's his copy.
That's his copy, yes.
Hi, Hans.
He was in my... He gave me the subtitle for General Madness.
Yeah.
He's the person who said, the bibliophile is the master of his books, the bibliomaniac and the slave.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's his quote.
This is one of his very, very rare books, in the Liechtenstein Library.
You know, this is... These two are his main books.
And he also made this, the Libre d'Or,
And then he told me to do the take.
And I have, in Rotomusta, I have the only copy on valet, also his own copy, printed on parchment of the book of our photography.
I have everything of him because I like him very much.
He did a nice job and quite nice.
And you know, this was the old mill house and they used to drive in here with a sort of factor as we call it.
All the sun is here.
Beautiful.
This is going to be... Take another one.
This is nice.
I just want to get that out there.
That's a little bit more.
Perfect.
Here's another one.
You know, I'm the only one to have the whole catalogue general of the Bibliothèque Nationale, you know, 232 volumes.
Look at that, I mean.
And I have two copies of that.
And this is ex-libris.
Yes, it came from Los Angeles Public Library.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I bought it, bought it, uh... Prior to the fire, I assume, here.
Why would they, just, why would they deaccession this?
Well, perhaps they bought the CD-ROM or whatever, I think, because it takes, takes a lot, lot of space.
Yeah, but that's very important.
Of course, I mean, it's, it's the... A library should have that.
I think so.
That, that doesn't make sense.
No, no, not to me, but, but I'm the one who preserves all these things, you know.
I'm just going to get this line of bits right here.
one of the most famous journals in German literature.
It's the Horen, published by Schiller, you know, and the only known copy on large paper, totally uncut, untrimmed, and with dedications on nine of the twelve... Nine of the twelve...
Is my train at 11.30?
Yes.
You know what?
We've done it.
But I'll be in touch.